This repository contains code written by Radford M. Neal that replicates and 
extends some of the results in

  Kissler, S. M., Tedijanto, C., Goldstein, E., Grad, Y. H., and Lipsitch, M.,
  "Projecting the transmission dynamics of SARS-CoV-2 through the postpandemic
  period", Science, vol. 368, pp. 860-868, 22 May 2020.

This paper is discussed on Radford Neal's blog, at radfordneal.wordpress.com.

The code here is new, not based on the code provided by the authors, but 
is capable of reproducing some of the results they obtained when options 
are set to their defaults. Other options allow exploration of alternative 
methods.

The programs are written in R, and the scripts for running them are
meant for use on a Unix/Linux/macOS system (though adapting them for
use on other systems should not be difficult).

The following directories contain R scripts and shell scripts to run them:

  proxy    Scripts to create ILI proxies, and coronavirus proxies based
           on them.  These proxies are written to ILIproxy.csv and
           CoVproxy.csv.

  R-est    Script to create estimates for R from a coronavirus proxy,
           with the results written to files named from the proxy and
           estimation method used.

  R-model  Script to fit regression models to R estimates.  For some 
           models, a simulation based on the model is also run.

  util     Contains utility routines used by the scripts above.

The scripts all create .pdf files with various plots.  There are "run"
shell scripts in each directory that run the scripts with various
settings of options.

The following shell commands should replicate the results of Kissler,
et al.:

  (cd proxy; run)
  (cd R-est; run)
  (cd R-model; run-kissler-et-al)

Plots analogous to Figure 1 in Kissler, et al (but not identically
formatted) should then be in R-model/R-model-proxyW-Ru_smoothed.pdf
(near the end).  These plots are for the full 33 week season (Kissler, 
et al truncates them at week 30), and have an additional red line giving 
the combined modelled value of R, and black dots giving the absolute 
season/virus effect (the black dots referenced to HKU1/2014-2015 of 
Kissler, et al are shown as gray dots).  There are logarithmic versions 
as well as the non-logarithmic versions analogous to Kissler, et al.  
Some variations on the methods of Kissler, et al. are also run, with 
other .pdf files showing these results.  Some methods that differ more
substantially are run with the run-alt shell file.  The code implements 
additional methods that can be run with suitable command-line options.

The scripts were tested with R-3.6.3 (see r-project.org).  They also work
with pqR-2019-02-19 (see pqR-project.org), which runs them faster.

This code is released under GPL v2 or later.
